Flow discovery consulagent component (#5062)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/reference/components/discovery.consulagent.md

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/discovery.consulagent/
title: discovery.consulagent
---

# discovery.consulagent

> `discovery.consulagent` allows retrieving scrape targets from [Consul's Agent API][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`discovery.consulagent` allows you to retrieve scrape targets from [Consul's Agent API][].
```

Only the services registered with the local agent running on the same host will be watched.
This is suitable for very large Consul clusters for which using the Catalog API would be too slow or resource intensive.

[Consul's Agent API]: https://developer.hashicorp.com/consul/api-docs/agent

## Usage

```river
discovery.consulagent "LABEL" {
  server = CONSUL_SERVER
}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments are supported:

| Name               | Type           | Description                                                                                                    | Default          | Required |
| ------------------ | -------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------- | -------- |
| `server`           | `string`       | Host and port of the Consul Agent API.                                                                         | `localhost:8500` | no       |
| `token`            | `secret`       | Secret token used to access the Consul Agent API.                                                              |                  | no       |

> | `datacenter`       | `string`       | Datacenter in which the Consul Agent is configured to run. If not provided, the default is used.               |                  | no       |

Reviewer 2: > If not provided, the default is used

What is the default here?

Author: according to the code if not set explicitly the datacenter is retrieved from the config of the consulagent and would represent the local node's datacenter. I could improve the doc here.

Author: Actually, I'm not even sure that it makes sense to have this field exposed here. Why would someone need to set the datacenter when we can retrieve it from the agent directly?

Reviewer 2: > Why would someone need to set the datacenter when we can retrieve it from the agent directly?

Oh you mean the _Consul_ agent here. Yeah, since the upstream struct allows to configure this, I think we should expose this. It's also a less-surprising UX from the converters perspective.

>  I could improve the doc here.
Yeah, let's do that and say where the default comes from.

- `__meta_consulagent_dc`: the datacenter name for the target.
- `__meta_consulagent_health`: the health status of the service.
- `__meta_consulagent_metadata_<key>`: each node metadata key value of the target.
- `__meta_consulagent_node`: the node name defined for the target.
- `__meta_consulagent_service`: the name of the service the target belongs to.
- `__meta_consulagent_service_address`: the service address of the target.
- `__meta_consulagent_service_id`: the service ID of the target.
- `__meta_consulagent_service_metadata_<key>`: each service metadata key value of the target.
- `__meta_consulagent_service_port`: the service port of the target.
- `__meta_consulagent_tagged_address_<key>`: each node tagged address key value of the target.
- `__meta_consulagent_tags`: the list of tags of the target joined by the tag separator.

## Component health

`discovery.consulagent` is only reported as unhealthy when given an invalid
configuration. In those cases, exported fields retain their last healthy
values.

## Debug information

`discovery.consulagent` does not expose any component-specific debug information.

### Debug metrics

> `discovery.consulagent` does not expose any component-specific debug metrics.

Reviewer 2: We should document the component's internal metrics here, too.

## Example

This example discovers targets from a Consul Agent for the specified list of services:

```river
discovery.consulagent "example" {
  server = "localhost:8500"
  services = [
    "service1",
    "service2",
  ]
}

> prometheus.scrape "demo" {

Author: I tried this demo locally with a consul agent running and a sample service and in grafana cloud I could see the metric telling me when my service was up. But I don't have experience with consul so if you think that an example with loki would be more helpful for users Im happy to update it

> prometheus.scrape "demo" {

Author: would it be loki.source.file instead of prometheus.scrape and loki.write instead of prometheus.remote_write?

> prometheus.scrape "demo" {

Reviewer 2: Yes, exactly. It's more in-line with what someone who's looking for `consulagent` will look for.

> prometheus.scrape "demo" {

Reviewer 2: Actually, they'd need still need to somehow construct the special `__path__` label, which I'm not sure would work on their case. Let's leave this example as-is for now and we can revisit later. 

Can you add an HTML-style comment `<!-- TODO: Include a logging example -->` on the markdown so we add it in the future?
